everyone lhasa montgomery with you again
part 3 this time presenting the
soon-to-be acclaimed chp overview of the
life of China's premier Joanne lie we
left off last time you may recall with
the evacuation of Ray Jean that was the
place back in 1930 where Mao had
established his yunxi Soviet the
Communists at the time of the evacuation
had taken absolute beating at the hands
of Jian kai-shek's NRA first came to
Shanghai massacre April 12th 1927 and
the subsequent white terror then four
years later came the coup xuanzang
affair and the capture and interrogation
of shang jung-hwa all these things
combined to drive the ccp deep deep
underground when the whip came down
there was nowhere else to go except to
Mao Zedong's relative safe haven and
raegene so the whole party center 28
Bolsheviks and all fled from Shanghai
South in the direction of raegene
suddenly these guys like Baku Joe and I
and others show up you have to be
wondering what Mao must have been
thinking at this point he was this loose
cannon sort of he hardly ever got any
respect from the party center or the
Comintern now they barge in on his turf
that he had gone to great lengths to
hold on to and suddenly they're in
charge no sooner was this jungchi's
Soviet established when Chong began a
series of encirclement campaigns to shut
it down
from what November 1930 till March 1933
John launched four of these campaigns
but each time the Communist Red Army led
brilliantly by Judah Mao Joe and others
repelled the attacks Jiang finally got
them on the fifth try and in October
1934 they evacuated raegene breaking
through these block houses and finally
in mid-december made their way just over
the guacho border to the city of Li ping
in the two months since the evacuation
of great jean meticulously planned by
joe and live the communists had become a
mere shell of their former selves
tempers were flaring between the
opposing factions accusations were
flying and the leadership was
shell-shocked at what just happened
he was Mao Zedong who came up with the
only feasible short-term plan to head
Northwest to the city of Chile second
largest city and cuejoe province after
Quay young of course they arrived on the
outskirts of soon-yi New Year's Day 1935
the Nationalists garrison there gave up
without much of a fight this is where
they were able to put down their
rucksacks sit down and try and figure
out what the heck just happened the good
old days of 1924-25 seemed like 100
years ago
now look at them all those who had
managed to survive the relentless
pressure of Jung's military police army
and all manners of anti-communist
leaning country men they encountered
along the way gathered into a need to
come to a consensus about what to do
next this moment in history is forever
known as the Zuni way II the Tony
conference held on January 15 to 17 at
an old Warlord's mansion at number 80
home chi road the ccp kept this meeting
secret for a very long time it's
popularly called the meeting where Mao
became the top guy in the CCP actually
this isn't true when it was all over and
they pulled out of town Mao didn't have
the titles yet to back him up but after
Johnny everyone more or less began to
defer to his leadership the Comintern
and later their 28 Bolsheviks had done
well keeping Mao bottled up and away
from the levers and knobs controlled by
the party center now he was inside that
circle the common turns proxies that is
Stalin's proxies ended up getting
marginalized the 28 Bolsheviks had all
met in Russia and had been fully
indoctrinated with the latest in Soviet
propaganda they were sent back to China
like a bunch of Manchurian candidates
with Stalin's backing to take over the
CCP and on a very simple level do
whatever Stalin wanted them to do the
major upshot of the Sunni conference was
that these 28 Bolsheviks and therefore
the Comintern
got pushed aside and by the time we get
to the end of this episode my was gonna
deal with them once and for all so Joe
and lye where did he fit in he was the
one who called this whole Sunni
conference of the extended Politburo 20
people although even that figure is
disputed
it was Joe's idea to gather together the
entire Politburo including alternates
and discuss the events the past 60 days
and to learn from these mistakes the
topmost leadership included ball COO
Otto Braun and Joe and live these were
the guys in charge who had called all
the shots since arriving at grade sheen
they had to speak first at the meeting
to offer their reasons why they got
mauled like they did Baku and Otto Braun
well they blamed everything and everyone
except themselves they offered up a
bunch of excuses that were all valid to
one degree or another the KMT armies
were too strong and well-equipped the
communist communications network was too
degraded they had a whole litany of
excuses but when it came time for Joe
and I to speak he blamed no one except
the leadership for their incorrect
planning and decisions they were in this
situation because of mistakes committed
militarily and politically by the ones
who were in charge of this whole route
18 evacuation and when Joe and I said
the leadership he meant himself for gu
and brown well this sure shook things up
Baku and out of brown were saying hey
don't look at us what were we supposed
to do but Joe and live with all the
dignity and fearlessness he could muster
just leaned on his sword and fell on it
he was the only one who had the guts to
say nobody's fault but mine with Joe's
admission that it was the leadership's
fault
it became open season to take as many
shots as anyone wanted at the 28
Bolsheviks at once the finger started
pointing like crazy Mao blasted Baugh
and brown he gave it to them good bran
by the way to not speak Mandarin or
Mouse Hunan dialect either so you can
imagine how he felt getting roasted
alive in this conference
being entirely dependent on his
translator to make his arguments Mao
also criticized Wan Ming who was up in
Moscow all along for his decisions as
well when it was all over the 28
Bolsheviks and their top to Baal coup
and Otto Braun had to take a back seat
they weren't in charge anymore
there were three main defections from
the 28 Bolsheviks John 1:10 Wong Josh
young and young shun-kun
John when Tian turned on his comrades ba
and brown he delivered a scathing
criticism of their tactics and handling
of the situation this opened the door
for Mao to chime in and attack them
directly as well and Jo selflessly
heaped as much blame as possible on
himself
and pointed at Mao he said all along at
every juncture Mao was dissed by
everyone and it turns out we should have
listened to him Jo even went as far as
to step down as the top person
militarily and said it should be Mao
Zedong who should be in charge of the
military in the way it was with
communism whoever was the top guy
militarily he was capo to capital with
the whole thing
joe said up till now all the military
strategy had been wrong as far as the
propaganda and political aspect of
everything that too had been ignored
chose admission of error changed the
whole tone of things and when Joe and I
said that Mao Zedong should be the one
we should be following one by one
everyone lined up behind them but Joe
also came in for a fair amount of
criticism as well he didn't walk away
from the Tony conference unscathed Mao
gave him an air fault even though Joe
seemed to be clearing the way for miles
ascendance to the top the way it worked
Mao had to whack Joe too but he did it
with the flat of his sword rather than
driving it in deep Joe put himself
completely at the mercy of Mao one of
the things mile criticized Joe for was
the evacuation of rage in when they
laugh Joe had called for everything to
be packed up and taken wherever it was
they were going next that included all
the printing presses heavy equipment
all kinds of things that were guaranteed
to slow down an army on the run and
that's exactly what happened time and
again for the sake of saving this
equipment lives were lost and their
retreat was slowed Mao gave it to Joe
good for this idea when all was said and
done the final conclusion was that the
leadership of Baugh Brown and Joe were
responsible for the mistakes but Baugh
and Brown were chiefly responsible after
all had the Joe and I said before at the
Ning 2 conference in early October 1932
that the tactics of Baugh and Brown were
not effective therefore that was it for
them they were out Joe however remained
part of the new leadership he was
demoted but not out his shift towards
Mao's direction was already underway by
soon-yi Baku and Brown had fought mile
up to the end Mao did not get the top
spot in the party that Joe had called
for him to get putting mao in place of
ball gu was too big a step after all
that had just happened as a compromise
they gave the party secretary spot to
the former 28 Bolshevik jeonghwan 10 Joe
replaced Otto Braun as top military man
Mao was his number 2 Mao however was
given one of the coveted spots on the
Politburo Standing Committee though Joe
was the head of the military he deferred
to Mao in these matters the new ma was
better suited to make these decisions
Jiang wen Tian was also loyal to Mao so
in both political and military affairs
he had Joe and John went in as his
puppets so to speak at this moment in
Chinese history Joe took his life and
put it in Mouse hands to do as he wanted
after Joe made such a self effacing
self-criticism and said you know I am to
blame
at that point mile could have just gone
in for the final kill Joe had always
been a rival of mouths all these years
Joe head never tried to grab top power
but he did stand in miles way
so Mao went after Baku and Otto Braun
when Mao began ranting on Joe and
soon-yi it was all for show the official
minutes from the to India conference
written down by Tung Shao
or one of those top secret hidden from
public view kinds of documents the
historical record makes it pretty clear
that at this point although not the top
guy on paper
if he hadn't bought your mouths of dog
shares yet you better call your broker
fast after tuned you there was this
inevitability that this one time long
shot from Hunan was gonna turn into the
top leader of the party in March
three-man group was put together that he
had Joe Mao and Wong Josh jung hwan's in
charge of party affairs and Joe and Mao
oversaw military affairs well China is
big but not so big that john kai-shek
didn't find out the whole CCP was
chilling in Zune yi as soon as he
started to send his armies in that
direction it was time to pack up get
moving and thus began the long march
mile determined the general strategy and
Joe handled all the details of which
they were quite a few each night Joe Mao
and Chang went en would meet to discuss
what to do the next day and it was
always left up to Joe to write it all
out get the word out to the last man
here's where Mao and Joe developed their
working relationship Mao gave the
broad-strokes in general direction
Joe understood what mal wanted and would
offer his wise counsel then after Mao's
decision was made he knew how to make
these things happen throughout the
system I don't want to rehash the long
march hare who was the whole matter of
John Gua and his big beefy fourth front
army 84,000 strong to deal with yet like
the Odyssey that had all these
challenges along the way it was the same
with the Long March there were two
crucial meetings that took place in
Northwest Sichuan first in June at Liang
Hook hall and two months later in my
archive lotta heated arguments back and
forth after he rendezvous with his much
bigger army Zhang hua was in a very
enviable position and had mild back on
his heels Joe stood on mouse side and
sticking with what was decided at two
and yi-jeong Gua had a bit of a swagger
going on and
summer 1935 his army hadn't been
shredded yet so while he had the
superior position militarily he tried to
assert his authority and his viewpoint
was that all the decisions made in Tony
were null and void and we all know in
the end John quato and South and Mao
went north these two rivals wouldn't
meet up again until December 1936 up in
yen on and we know from previous
episodes by then chhankata
won't be looking so good and by 1937
he'll be purged from the party and the
next year he defected to the KMT in the
1968 he will emigrate to Canada where he
died in 1979 outliving his rival by
three years so to keep up appearances
Joe was the top military man and Mao was
under him but right after they got set
up and yen on Joe stepped down and Mao
became number one and that's how it
stayed until the bitter end Mao first
Joe second Joe and I bore the brunt of
the entire long march in not the best of
shape he was not a well man a lot of the
time suffering from all manners of
debilitating ailments especially when
John Waage showed up and after the
crossing of the da2 River in late May
1935 Joe got deathly ill and there
weren't any hospitals along the route of
the long march he couldn't even walk
I'll tell you a quick story during this
time when Joe was really in a bad way
just as they were passing through the
most horrible part of the ordeal through
the grasslands were su chuan Tibet and
Ching hai all come together one of the
men who bore Joe stretcher was young Lee
sun-hee was one of the officers in
charge of logistics and supply the
logistics and supply division was later
known as the jang-ho Chien bull of the
PLA anyway when the young Lisan passed
away in 1954 well he wasn't what you
called a top leader he had a brilliant
record fighting the Japanese and the
Nationalists
but he was really only the pla general
logistics department minister and later
the national food industry minister but
nevertheless when he died Joanne Lai all
ready the premier of China helped carry
Yang's coffin at the funeral in
remembrance of what yang had done for Jo
back in late August 1935 during the
harshest days at a Long March a lot of
people on hand to witness this moment
who walked the long march probably
understood the significance there was a
person who kept Jo alive through each
our deal
his name was Fuli and Jang he's better
remembered as Nelson foo
he made the whole long march with
everyone else
Nelson foo later became the doctor to
the young man hi Elise and a vice
minister of public health he wound up on
the wrong side of Lin Biao during the
Cultural Revolution and died in prison
in 1968 anyway without the care of
Nelson foo-foo Lee and Chang it's
doubtful Cho and I would have survived
the worst of his illnesses during the
long march Nelson Phu was one of the
many unsung heroes the 1930s and 40s
well 3,000 miles after they left heard a
gene they made it to Yen on in October
1935 by November of that year Mao
officially outrank Jo and lie in the
military Jo recovered from the ordeal
and he set up a home in one of the caves
with dong Ling chow throughout 1936
there were a lot of late-night meetings
they were still 13 years to go yet
before the PRC will be established but
it was never too early to start planning
1936 saw the Berlin Summer Olympics that
year and the formation of the Berlin
Rome access Stalin knew it wouldn't be
long before Japan would join these
access powers 1936 was also the year
Stalin launched his Great Purge thousand
executions per day
that went on for a couple years or so
anyway Jung kai-shek knew the whole CCP
party center was in and around yen on he
had two armies to deal with them he had
the Northwest army under yang ho Chun in
the Northeast army the donbas jun under
the command of the young marshal Zhang
Xiao Liang they called the young marshal
or Chou sure because in 1936 he was all
of 35 years old command
one of the great warlord armies of all
time his father of course was Chun Sol
in the Japanese military machine
couldn't buy Chung hauling off or bring
him over to their side so they blow up
his train in 1928 with him in it they
thought they'd have better luck
manipulating the Warlord's former opium
smoking no-good son Joey by September 18
1931 the Mukden incident Japan used some
pretext seize control of Manchuria this
marked the beginning of their gradual
control of China's industrial trading
and transportation heartland Jiang
Strang wasn't big enough or strong
enough to take on Japan yet so he
allowed his northeast army to be pushed
out of their base after Joey ba came the
Battle of Shanghai 1932 when boycotts
and protests against Japanese became so
violent that Japan began bombing the
place the following year Japan withdrew
from the League of Nations 1934 saw Puyi
the last emperor
get a second chance at greatness he was
just an infant when the Empress Dowager
thrust him on the dragon throne now he
was all grown up and Japan made him the
emperor of manchu quo the Japanese in
Manchuria thought they'd have an easier
time with jeong-seon but he proved to be
no more willing to cooperate with them
that his father was all this Japanese
encroachment in China didn't appear to
be a big deal for Jang kai-shek his
priorities were wiping out the surviving
CCP remnants in yen on both Yahoo Chung
and Zhang Xiao Liang have been given
this order they complied at first but
after a while there was much to show for
their efforts the whole thing seemed
futile Japan was just smashing and
grabbing whatever they wanted in China
and here they were fighting these
battles against fellow Chinese just
didn't seem right so the young marshal
jung jae-young and yang wu chun quickly
lost faith in their leader sensing they
might be people he could reason with it
was around this time that Jo and I
reached out to them not long after they
began to
get set up and yen on Joe sent out
feelers to young ho Chung once this was
established contact was also made with
Jang Shi Liang Jo met with the young
marshal for five hours on April 6th 1936
these three men
Joanne Lai Jiang Xiao Liang and yang Wu
Chun aside from a common dislike and
mistrust of Chiang kai-shek they all
believed the focus of every effort
should be in resisting the Japanese
rather than the whole Civil War thing
was 1936 it had been 10 years since the
John Shan gunboat incident and John was
still trying to get rid of the
Communists the Shanghai Massacre the
white tear the secret police the five
encirclement campaigns harassing them
when they were on the run during the
long march how hard he had tried and now
we almost had them he only needed his
two generals up there
yang Wu Chun leading the Northwest army
and john xiao lian in the northeast to
combine together and put an end to them
finally they were all in one place in
northern Xiang XI
but what Chung didn't know was that Joe
and I had already gotten through to them
Joe had convinced them to join together
with the Red Army and unite to fight the
Japanese and he further convinced them
to do their best to persuade giong to
see things this way and that they had no
problem with jung being the one in
charge
well john had tasked these guys with
stamping out the red army but nothing
seemed to be going on so he decided to
take matters into his own hands and lead
the fight himself he ordered one of his
armies north and then he flew up to xian
and set up a Northwest headquarters for
the suppression of bandits and prepared
for the final battle well I don't want
to get into the minutiae of the xian
incident but this event like the long
march
joe and i got a producer credit since
joe and lies April meeting with Jang Shi
Liang in an abandoned Catholic Church in
yen on Joe proposed to the young marshal
that junk I check
stop trying to annihilate them and join
together to form a government of
National Defense to fight against Japan
they acknowledged
supremacy in this grave moment in the
nation's history and they agreed to
fight under his banner Joe knew all the
CCP really needed was a seat at the
table when John argued to Chiang
kai-shek to consider this proposal John
thought are you kidding or something
what part of destroy them don't you
understand
but Jiang Xiao Liang and Yong ho Chung
didn't go after the communist instead
they trained together with them and came
to an agreement to focus their efforts
on pushing back on Japan the communist
propaganda machine was operating at full
throttle to get the word out far and
wide that all their efforts were focused
on resisting Japan Joe and Lian set up a
news agency called Xinhua in 1936 to act
as the mouthpiece of the party
it still is 80 years later at a time
when the visceral hatred of Japan was
reaching a boiling point
Joe was effective in getting the word
out nationally that they the Communists
were going to lead this effort against
Japan and if no one else would do it
they would this was the tone of the
propaganda throughout 1936 Joe had even
gone so far as to write directly to John
kai-shek this was in September he had
said to Jung in the 10 years since they
last met Japan had gone and taken over
five provinces of China he appealed to
young sense of patriotism and love of
China but all to no avail
despite all the pressure bearing down
and Jung to reverse his strategy of
dealing with communist Red Army first
and Japan later it all came to naught
his mind was pretty well set the
Communists had to go anyway
Joe never got a reply from Chung in the
meantime throughout all of 1936 Stalin
via the Comintern was calling for a
united front with Cheung against Japan
the late-night planning sessions in yen
were no doubt quite intense this
represented a huge chance for the CCP
politically if they could get a seat at
the
table it would represent a massive
comeback but John wasn't having any of
it he flew up to Xian in September
around the time Joe was writing to him
trying to get him to back down on his
efforts to exterminate the CCP and join
together to fight Japan once he was face
to face with Jang and young he ripped
them anew you know what he made all
kinds of threats hints and remarks that
let it be known he wasn't happy with
their performance and wiping out the
Communist army after conferring with his
other army in-law young John let it be
known he had lost faith in the Northwest
and northeast armies of Jung and John if
they wouldn't do the job he would John
returned to Xian on December 4th 1936
when John Shu lien met with Jang and
tearfully tried to reason with him John
said bitterly quote you've been
influenced by the Reds no doubt Jo and
ly the man of a thousand different Tunes
I tell you that even if I were to die
tomorrow I would first to press the
Communists end quote
five days later there were organized
student protests and Xian demanding the
government do something to fight back
against Japan the horrors committed by
the Japanese army of December 1937 were
still a year away but the national mood
was decidedly in favor of fighting back
John kept assuring everyone that this
fight with the Red Army was in its last
five minutes they were almost done then
they go after the Japanese if you listen
to the CCP version of events they claim
they didn't know what the young marshal
and young who Chun were up to but that's
doubtful mani wave 4 a.m. on December
12th the Xian incident was just
beginning to unfold John was scheduled
to depart that day the first order of
business was for the conspirators to
seize KMT political and communications
channels at 5 a.m.
John was already up and Adam doing his
morning exercises he heard things and
suddenly knew something was up
and it wasn't good for him
as famous story goes john kai-shek was
led by one of his aides out the back
window and tried to hide on the compound
of the watching resort where he was
staying but four hours later he was
found and escorted the young who Chung's
headquarters mid-december and Xian is
not what you call balmy it was freezing
cold when all this was going down and
during the attempted escape Jiang's
choppers fell out and couldn't be found
he was a mess so John was officially
kidnapped and being held while
communications were sent out to both the
nationalist government nanjing and to
the communists an eight-point plan was
announced pretty much written up by Joe
and Lai that called for everyone to join
together in his dark hour to fight back
against the invading Japanese forces
Stalin almost had a heart attack when he
heard what was going on nothing could
have been worse than this you see Russia
was very nervous about having the
Japanese so close to their borders with
Germany and Italy making all this noise
in the West and then cozying up with
Japan Stalin was feeling like he was
getting squeezed he had his mind fixed
on one thing tying down Japan in China
taking Japan's mind and military
resources away from any thoughts of
encroaching on Russian territory or
interfering with Russian operations in
China once Joe found out what had
happened assuming he didn't know that
John and Jung were gonna take such
drastic action he took control of the
situation the most immediate problem had
to do with John kai-shek's faked first
of all if Generalissimo in this kind of
situation was not an easy person to
handle Jung and Jang had more than a
handful and as soon as they discovered
John was not gonna give in to them they
called in Joe and I to help save the day
but John refused to see Joe no way that
was gonna happen that was too sensitive
a thing especially under these
circumstances
so his junk Ishak remained captive in
the palace of glorious purity as xi'an
no doubt with the ghosts of Townshend
song and young grave a to keep him
company
it became Joe's role too
with Johnny Lee Yong and Yun ku Chung to
decide what to do there were two
opposing sides with differing opinions
on what to do with the Generalissimo one
group said execute him the other side
wanted him alive
Cho's position was that they needed to
keep Chung alive Jo and others felt that
that's such a delicate time as this the
last thing China needed was a national
political crisis that would help make
Japan's job much easier to finish HH
Cohn heard first about what had happened
and he notified song mei-ling at once
Hong mei-ling and Chong yang had a
common friend in the Australian William
H Donald WH Donald had become a mentor
and close friend of John Sri Liang it
was Madame Jang's hope that he could
talk some sense into the young marshal
Joe and lies eight points of national
salvation were proffered to the
authorities and Nanjing via the two
generals Stalin had strongly ordered Mao
not to do anything rash and to work out
a solution Jo got sent to Xian to make
sure this happened from this point
forward it was Joe and Lai you took over
all the choreography of the Xian
incident although he hadn't been able to
meet John face to face Joe was calling
all the shots john kai-shek knew this
point very well Joe negotiated with
Chung through TV song Madame John's
brother Joe agreed the fight against
Japan would best be led by Jim he said
although the Red Army fought under
Jung's banner they themselves would
retain actual control over their army
Mao wasn't yielding on this point when
resistance was given against this matter
of control
Joe reminded TV song that warlord armies
and generals who were not entirely loyal
to Jeon were being used so the precedent
was already there for the CCP to retain
control over their army even though they
fought under Jiang's banner when the
negotiations reached their final stages
that's when Joe called on Joan he went
together with TVs song and saluted John
when he saw him 8:00 in the morning
December 24th this had been the first
time the two had met face to face since
the John Shan gunboat incident
a lot of blood had been spilled since
then in so many words in exchange for
releasing chiong unharmed and
acknowledging Jung's leadership he
agreed to form a national United Front
and cease hostilities against the CCP
forces chiong also agreed that the CCP
cos and representatives to nanjing to
liaise with the kmt government there it
almost as an aside Jo mentioned to Cheon
that his son Jang Jin Hwa would be
coming back to China soon for many years
Stalin had ordered that Chiang ching-kuo
be held against his will in Moscow as a
political hostage the Generalissimo had
tried to get his son back but any
attempts had led nowhere yet here was Jo
and light Ellen Jang his son would be
coming home soon and indeed in April the
following year the bloody year of 1937
Chiang ching-kuo returned no agreement
was signed Joe took John for his word in
a private meeting later on when Cho was
alone with TVs song and song mei-ling
they asked him how they could get in
touch with him in Shanghai he told them
they could always find him through their
sister some chingling he let them know
their patriotic sister had already
written a check for $50,000 to Mao later
on song Ching Ling will let it be known
that she didn't appreciate that Jo let
that one slip their foreign Christmas
Day 1936 John left Xian with his
entourage John shreya yang is an act of
good faith accompany Jung to Nanjing is
an act of bad faith Jung had the young
marshal arrested charged pardoned and
kept under house arrest until the date
young died in 1975 afterwards Chinese
shreelane moved to Honolulu lived out
the rest of his days
dying in 2001 at the age of a hundred
Johnny Sri aliens first place of
incarceration was in the town of Chicot
outside of Ningbo and visited at once
Jiang also had a residence there as well
yong-ho chung did not fare so well after
believing he was in the clear for a
while
he ended up imprisoned thrown in a
concentration camp and later in 1949
before john picked up and left for
taiwan
he had young executed Joe and Lai
perhaps more than anyone else and on the
negotiations was responsible for Jung
flying out of Xian that Christmas Day in
1936 after all the past failures it
really seemed he had them at last
everything was in place that could have
wiped out the communist armies or at
least forced them deeper into the north
into Mongolia even but this kidnap and
the aftermath and particularly the role
Joe played changed everything
certainly the course of Chinese history
okay another united front this time the
nation was fighting to defend itself
from an enemy without rather than from
warlords from within but despite all
that well-meaning talk in the end
powerful conservatives and the KMT said
they just couldn't do it but just like
Joe expected Zhang insisted to keep his
end of the bargain he made a deal for
his life and he was gonna stick with it
at least for now plenty of haggling
still needed to be done in xi'an between
the KMT and ccp in this new arrangement
this dragged on into 1937 in March Jo
flew back to Yen on to hold talks with
Mao nothing much was happening as far as
progress jiang was insisting the Red
Army's be under his control you know
with the new arrangement Mao was saying
no way things kept dragging on until 7 7
1937 the Marco Polo Bridge incident
mentioned many times in this podcast the
Japanese launched their offensive and
now times were too urgent to keep
bargaining about who would control what
45,000 troops under the Red Army were
organized into the 8th route army
legendary ba Lu June they operated under
nationalist control and wore nationalist
uniforms but Mao ultimately called the
shots they were led by Judah and Poong
defy those communist troops operating
the central part of China were
reorganized into the new 4th army led by
yet ting is Zhang Ying by September 22nd
1937 the CCP and KMT United as one in
spirit anyway faced a Japanese military
that was at the height of its power and
with the most memorable atrocities of
the war to be committed merely a few
months away things didn't go too
smoothly though just because all these
grandiose pronouncements were made at
the topmost level problems remained with
the implementation Joe negotiated on and
on with the National aside about every
little thing then in November of 1937
Wang Ming showed up in yen on after a
long stretch in Moscow
you recall Wang mang at the head of the
28 Bolshevik Stalin's main man as far as
China was concerned Mao still had to
deal with this guy and his return of the
main camp presented a clear and present
danger to the future great helmsman in
all these discussions of the highest
level of the CCP weiming was leading the
charge against Mao's reluctance to
cooperate more with the Nationalists
Jiang wanted control of these newly
assembled 8th route and new 4th armies
and Mao was dead set against this these
were his babies they would fight the
Japanese Mao style pure guerrilla
warfare in times like this was always
left up to Joe to reconcile the two
opposites and find the common ground and
done usually in a way where face was
preserved and no one was seen giving in
and while all these discussions are
going on let me tell you quite a bit
happening in the world
Pearl Harbor Japan sweep into Southeast
Asia the merciless bombing campaign the
Nanjing Massacre if you recall from past
CHP episodes after the Nanjing Massacre
and after the Japanese grabbed that city
for their own purposes the Nationalist
government moved to the city of Wuhan
but that's not gonna last long and in
October 1938 the capital that gets moved
again further west to the city of
Chongqing and part of the deal Jiang
struck regarding the United Front was
that the Communists could have a
representative to serve as a kind of
liaison with this central government
operating during more time in this
provisional capital that of course was
Joe's role this will begin yet another
major chapter and Joe and lies life this
will be the role he plays representing
the Communists in the wartime capital of
Chongqing Joe arrived in town in
December 1938 also going on at this time
was the arrival of lon being in yen on
she swept into town in August right
after the Marco Polo Bridge incident and
after the Japanese put the movie
business in Shanghai on a temporary
hiatus
she caught mouths eye and amidst all
this tumult in China and around the
world they began their famous romance
later on she ditches the name LAN ping
and has given the new name Jeong Ching
so Jo became the CCP liaison to the
Nationalist government with the rank of
lieutenant-general first in wilhunt jo
doesn't waste any time secretly setting
up a young Bureau of the Central
Committee of the CCP as well if he was
gonna be down in Wuhan where all the
action was he met as well moonlight for
the party it was like the Whampoa
Military Academy all over again one of
the first things Jo got up and running
was the sheet water bomb the new China
Daily
Joe was tireless and the way he reached
out to the inteligencia and technocrats
people who weren't with them but also
weren't against him
Joe sought to win this huge an important
base over to the CCP side March April
1938 was the tire chuan campaign Joe
didn't fight in the front lines but he
participated in the planning and
strategy along with Li Tong ran and
bites on sheep this battle was the first
time since anyone could remember that
the Japanese military got a full punch
in the stomach after this unexpected
knock down the Japanese military didn't
seem so invincible anymore but 1938
there were still 7 more years of hell
ahead of anyone who might live to see
the end in 1945 this Wuhan period was a
good one for Joe he was back in his
element organizing working clandestinely
building relationships working old
relationships and getting people pumped
up and right about now 1938 or so
Western journalists and adventurers
began showing up in China and came to
Wuhan nothing was more enjoyable than an
evening meeting this communist leader so
charismatic charming erudite to the west
Joe was a walking advertisement for the
CCP
if you wanted to visit yen on you had to
go through Joe and lie
he acted his mouth-- foreign minister he
thought your presence in yen on had
value he would arrange your transit
that's how bide show on Norman Bethune
made his way up there in 1938 these were
the days when edgar snow was getting a
close-up look agnes medley rui ali they
all gravitated towards joe and these
dozens of foreign journalists would hear
what Joe had to say about the Communists
and the big picture and for the first
time ever the CCP had a viable channel
to influence world opinion and get their
side of the story out in early April
1938 John guat as much at loggerheads
with Mao as ever defected to the KMT Joe
rushed in to try and save the day but he
couldn't do anything he did all he could
reason with John guat and cut a deal
but all to no avail it was quite a
political embarrassment for the CCP when
those original 15 CCP members assembled
in Shanghai July 19-21 at 76 Shinya Road
John kurta was there he was one of them
an original so they have someone who sat
at the table with Ma dong be wu qian do
show and others at that moment of
Inception that was one hell of a
defection the CCP propaganda department
had to work overtime on that one once
safely ensconced in Chongqing via
Changsha and kweilyn Joe continued his
role as the ccp's liaison to the
nationalist government
donging Chou was with him yet geunyang
worked at his side as well during this
period but his more important role was
to act as the point man for the CCP
expanding their relationships spreading
positive messages and winning sympathy
were ever possible Joe also did whatever
he could to recruit new party members
the ranks began to swell this second
United Front was proven to be as good
for the CCP is the first one and
everywhere Joe and I went 24 hours a day
seven days a week
Dai Li had a
eyes on him they always made it their
mission to know where he was at all
times everyone knew what Joe was doing
and the two armies that were created the
8th route and knew forth they were only
meant to be small forces but by the end
of 1939 the Babu Jin was a hundred and
fifty thousand strong and the new Fourth
Army had swelled to 40,000 it didn't
take long before the new 4th army
technically part of the Nationalists
began to get hassled by Jang's forces in
July 1939 Joe made one of his trips back
to Yen on he kept Milan formed in what
was going on on this trip back Mau made
a request of Joe to speak to the cadres
of the Central Committee which I owe to
to flee carried out this task and we
mounted his horse to take the ten
kilometer ride to the cadre school on
Rudy fell from his horse breaking his
arm above the elbow no less a physician
and George hate him himself attended to
the future premiere once Joe was given
this first aid by dr. ma height the he
was taken to Moscow to the top hospital
there to have his fracture taken care of
John kai-shek had lent one of his
private planes to take him there they
were able to stabilize his arm but it
always would remain bent at the elbow
he couldn't straighten it out after this
nanny photo you see of Joe his right arm
is always slightly bent Joe took
advantage of his presence in Moscow to
meet with leaders there to discuss the
state of affairs between their
organization and the Comintern after
long meetings lasting days Joe was able
to bring the Comintern over to his side
that is the sight of mounted dong Joe
had used his ways to sway their opinions
and win their support for all these
years it had always been the Comintern
bossing around the Chinese Communists
now thanks to Joe and Lai they were in
lockstep this meant that Wan Ming was
out and now he was gonna get his he had
been a thorn in my side for a long time
with this latest turn of events it was
soon gonna be open season on this one
time later at the 28 Bolsheviks and his
cohorts
when Joe returned to China in March 1940
he had a lot of good news for mouth in
June he was back in Chongqing by August
the Red Army was planning some major
offensives against Japan in North China
this became known as Poong de wises
hundred regiments campaign as mentioned
in a previous CHP episode so successful
was this hundred regiments campaign and
killing and harassing Japanese soldiers
but it resulted in unexpected
retaliatory measures Jian saw the
success of the 8th route army beating
back the Japanese and this made him very
nervous he negotiated with Joe for the
withdrawal of the new 4th army from
south of the yang soo Yung's main power
base in December over 60,000 troops of
the new 4th army had left with 10,000
troops remaining behind but planning to
cross the axis soon they were led by yet
ting as young yang On January 7th 1941
the new 4th army incident went down like
everything there's a KMT version of
events and a CCP version whatever the
case may have been around 9,000 new 4th
army troops were massacred by Jiang's
army of 80,000 led by Shangguan Yun
Xiang so much for that second United
Front
Zhang demanded the new 4th army
disbanded instead mouth had it
reorganized with Chagny commanding and
Leo Shao Qi acting as commissar in 1941
December the USA entered the war and
finally the matter of China and Chiang
kai-shek got prioritized but if you
remember from many past episodes the USA
didn't want to hear anything about
anything that had to do with any Civil
War if US aid and support was gonna keep
flowing with any regularity John get to
keep up this sham United Front with the
Communists
Stalin had signed a neutrality pact with
Japan that allowed him to focus as
military efforts on the Western Front
against Hitler with Stalin thoroughly
distracted Mao launched a rectification
campaign and yen on miles objective was
to clean house of anyone who wasn't on
his side or even suspect
of not being on his side but 10,000
lives were lost or shall I say taken
away top on the list where any 28
Bolshevik remnants and supporters of the
old Comintern line Mao also went after
anyone who spent time overseas Joe fell
into this category when he returns to
Yemen he's gonna have to face the music
this yen on rectification movement' the
yen on Cheung Fong Eun dong is where Mao
became the unchallenged top leader in
the party he had been heading in this
direction since June ye but when this
you and Don was all done in 1944 Mao had
no challengers and Mao Zedong thought
had been enshrined at the party
Constitution
next time we convened will pick up in
July 1943 Sir Paul McCartney was 13
months old then this is when Joe and Lai
pulled into yen on with this
rectification movement' raging all for
next time don't forget the ant hill
towards long-awaited anthology of some
of their best stuff ever is out while
we're here edited by the ant hills very
own Alec ash and Tom Pellman show some
love get it while you can at Earnshaw
books calm yes the place where you can
get quality books on China and beyond
Earnshaw books calm Penguin Books also
has a couple new ones out Penguin Books
North China coming this month from one
of the most authoritative voices in the
West about the Great Wall mr. William
Lindsay OBE check out the Great Wall and
fifty objects out this month from
penguin Viking also Shelia Melvin and
jingdong ties Beethoven and China how
the composer became an icon in the
People's Republic this is out on penguin
specials I've mentioned those before
penguin specials provide a short escape
into a fictional world and act as a
primer in a particular field or provide
a new angle and an old subject penguin
specials short original and affordable
go to penguin comm dot CN you love the
historic tees of China in time for the
holidays the CHP is once again
teaming up with the tea lovers at tea
sense.com to bring you a lovely party
gift set if you're looking to buy your
bad self a nice gift or if it's for a
loved one or even someone you're stuck
buying a gift for check it out - nice
torch oz a 2006 Shung the par from the
Hmong high tea factory of Shi chuan Bana
and a 2015 show poo are from the famous
Xiao Quan tea factory located in dali
yunnan province two of the most renowned
who are tea factories located in the
land that brought this great gift to the
world to show you what a bunch of good
guys we are the two nice sized watch
house come with their own tea pick and
an exquisite guy wan guy wants of course
discussed in the internationally
award-winning CHP history of tea series
these covered tea balls were introduced
during the Ming Dynasty but became all
the rage during the ching kunshi period
and i know this isn't gonna make you
rush out and order this but a guy one is
the preferred tea consumption vessel of
your host and humble narrator go to tea
sense.com and get yours now that's t EI
SE and z.com the perfect gift for phu
are lovers everywhere this is La Isla
Montgomery signing off once again from
the city of Los Angeles Joe and Lai part
for next time please find the time in
your media diet for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast